---
layout: layouts/article.njk
title: Bike Week 2013
id: 3704
tags:
  - pcc
  - Events
  - PCF
date: 2013-06-11 21:15:41
todo:
  - Articles on this site are being migrated to a new format.
  - <b>This page</b> has been automatically migrated, but requires a manual check-&amp;-tune to ensure the format and links all work as expected.
  - This message will remain on this page until it has been checked.
---

Bike Week is upon us once again.  There is a full programme of events in Portsmouth:

#### Bike Week Launch Event

Saturday 15 June, 11am-4pm
Southsea Skate Park, Clarence Esplanade

All activities are FREE:

*   Forest track – an exciting test of skill on a timber track with bends, humps and bumps
*   Obstacle course
*   Bike try outs – including carrying a child on a bike, bike trailers and adaptive cycles
*   BMX displays – on the hour every hour
*   Bike Doctor – checks and basic repairs
*   Smoothie making bike
*   Police security marking and safe locking advice

#### Ride on the Wild Side

Sunday 16 June, 11am
Cosham Station

The annual Friends Of The Earth led ride, this time around some of the wilder areas of the city.

#### Famous Figures Ride

Monday 17 June, 5.30pm
Dockyard Gate, The Hard

Guided ride to look at famous figures of Portsmouth.

#### Mountain Bike Session

Tuesday 18 June, 7pm (for 7.30pm start)
Queen Elizabeth Country Park

Meet at Activity Centre with your bike or there is limited transport available from Portsmouth, call 023 9284 1948 to book a place.

#### Uni-cycle Ride

Wednesday 19 June, 8am
Eastney swimming baths

Why not try riding to the University? Free bike breakfast for everyone that comes along.

#### Thomas Ellis Owen Ride

Wednesday 19 June, 5.30pm
Queen Victoria statue, Guildhall Square

Look at the work of the famous Victorian architect with Sue and John Pike.

#### Bike Doctor

Thursday 20 June, 11am-2pm
Guildhall Square

Free bike check and basic repairs.

#### Annual Fish and Chip Ride

Friday 21 June, 5.30pm
Kings Theatre, Albert Rd

Portsmouth Cycle Forum’s annual fish and chip ride.

#### Community Cycle Centre Open Day

Saturday 22 June, 10am-2pm
Stacey Centre, Walsall Road

Basic bike check and repair training session.

#### Military History Ride

Sunday 23 June, 11am
The Square Tower, Broad Street, Old Portsmouth

A guided ride, with commentary, around interesting military sites in the city.