---
layout: layouts/article.njk
title: Cycle Forum Meeting Thursday 13 January
id: 1716
tags:
  - Meetings
date: 2011-01-10 22:27:36
todo:
  - Articles on this site are being migrated to a new format.
  - <b>This page</b> has been automatically migrated, but requires a manual check-&amp;-tune to ensure the format and links all work as expected.
  - This message will remain on this page until it has been checked.
---

[![](http://www.pompeybug.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/Portsmouth-Guildhall-150x150.jpg "Portsmouth Guildhall")](http://www.pompeybug.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/Portsmouth-Guildhall.jpg)The next open meeting of the Cycle Forum is on Thurday 13 January in meeting room 1 of the Guildhall. It starts at 7pm and everyone is welcome to come along, meet us and join in and have your say. We have asked Martin Lavers (Deputy Head of Service for Transport Operations) to attend and talk about road safety audits. We'll also be looking at the city traffic light review to see improvements could be made for cyclists and pedestrians.